Introduction
In India the gateway to becoming a doctor is the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), students stress about scoring high marks in NEET. Do not feel anxious if you have a low NEET score, as there are numerous ways to pursue MBBS. Low marks in NEET is not a closure of medical career. 
Understanding about other ways for admission in a medical career can significantly reduce anxiety and also keep you motivated for the period of admission.  
Here in this article, we will discuss why the low NEET scores don't define your future and how Medical tree, a leading NEET counseling service can guide you in the admission process so that you have the best path going forward.  


Understanding NEET Scores 

Foremost, one has to understand the importance of the NEET score in medical admission. There are various options available for students with low NEET students to pursue the career of MBBS admission. 
To get admission in a medical college, NEET is the entrance exam. The score that is obtained  by students in the examination is expressed as percentile. The score determines eligibility criteria in various medical courses like MBBS, BDS and more. It is based on the grading system, which evaluates knowledge of the students in physics, chemistry and also biology. 
The score of NEET varies each year, depending on various factors. They are the number of candidates who appeared in the exam, difficulty level of the exam. The average score in NEET keeps on fluctuating. Generally to get admission in Government Medical College, a high percentile is required, but this does not mean that one has to lose all hope if the scores are less.
Fact vs. Myth: The Realities of Low NEET Scores

NEET aspirants have one common myth, low NEET scores hinder the chances of getting an MBBS seat. Though it is wholly true, there are many students who get admission in medical colleges and build their careers in the field of doctors. Seeking the right guidance and knowing the options is the key. 
Medical tree is an expert counselling service - they can help you in identifying medical colleges which offer MBBS admission with Low NEET scores. There are different options available which include management quota, private college, alternative medical course. These options would be accessible to the students in a more easy way than one thinks. 
Alternative Paths to MBBS Admission

A few options to consider for admission in MBBS with low NEET score which can keep the dream of medical education alive :

1. Government Medical Colleges
There are few exceptions, a student can get admission in a government medical college even with a low NEET score. It is even true that admission is possible through state quota or any other category
that is reserved. Medical tree helps students in navigating through state and national counselling which will surely increase the chances of getting admission. They also help students by helping them in understanding the NEET counselling process. 

2. Private Medical Colleges
These are another potential option for students with low NEET scores. The fees of private colleges may be on the higher side, these colleges also offer quality education and facilities.  Medical tree, makes sure that the admission process of this is made convenient for students as the required NEET score is different for each institution. This also helps in the process of applying for multiple colleges. 

3. Management Quota Seats
Another option to secure a seat in medical colleges is through management quota. In this quota, the college allows admission to those students who do not have higher NEET score but are meeting the other criterias. The fees in the colleges of these quotas can be steep, which is an alternative pathway for those who are aspiring to become doctors. 
Medical tree provides detailed information regarding this process, which helps one to make informed decisions about this. 

4. BDS and Other Medical Courses
Other courses in the medical field are also available other than MBBS. The student can explore BDS(Bachelor of Dental Surgery), BAMS(Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery), or BPT (Bachelor of Physiotherapy). These courses also have promising future opportunities in the field of health care, these courses are also equally respectable like MBBS. 
Basing your NEET score, medical tree counselors help in exploring options for medical colleges. 
Support Systems Available

At Medical Tree, we offer counseling services to NEET students. Our  experienced team mentors are available, who help students by providing guidance which is personalized for students individually. Students also get NEET counselling tips. From choosing the right medical college for admission to understanding different criterias of college for pursuing the career of medical studies, medical tree is present at all stages.   
Students who have low marks in NEET get support for mentorship programs in the medical tree, which shows the students alternate pathways to get admission in MBBS college. Detailed resources, one to one sessions, workshops are all provided to students which help them in the persuasion of a medical career.

Call to Action
Do not allow the low NEET scores to stop you from pursuing the career of medical studies. Reach out the expert counselling service provided by Medical Tree, which helps you in getting through the admission process which ensures you get a medical career. 
Medical tree helps you in getting the dream of a medical career true. They support you in every possible way. Whether you have low NEET scores or unsure about the further steps, get in touch with the medical tree. 
